The N queens puzzle is the problem of placing eight chess queens on an N×N chessboard or grid so that no
two queens threaten each other; thus, a solution requires that no two queens share the same row, column, or
diagonal. For example, following figure 1 is a solution for 6 Queen problem. It can be seen that for N = 1,
the problem has a trivial solution, and no solution exists for N = 2 and N = 3. So first we will consider the 4
queens problem and then generate it to n - queens problem

3 Algorithm
Step 1: Start in the leftmost column
Step 2: If all queens are placed
return true
Step 3: Try all rows in the current column.
Do following for every tried row.
a) If the queen can be placed safely in this row then mark this [row, column] as part of the solution and
recursively check if placing queen here leads to a solution.
b) If placing the queen in [row, column] leads to a solution then return true.
c) If placing queen doesn’t lead to a solution then unmark this [row, column] (Backtrack) and go to step
(a) to try other rows.
Step 4: If all rows have been tried and nothing worked, return false to trigger backtracking.

3.1 Example
---------------
Let’s understand an example by taking 4 queens to place which are ’q1’, ’q2’, ’q3’ and ’q4’. Now, we
place queen ’q1’ in the very first acceptable position (1, 1). Next, we put queen ’q2’ so that both these
queens do not attack each other. We find that if we place ’q2’ in column 1 and 2, then the dead end is
encountered. Thus the first acceptable position for ’q2’ in column 3, i.e. (2, 3) but then no position is left
for placing queen ’q3’ safely. So we backtrack one step and place the queen ’q2’ in (2, 4), the next best
possible solution. Then we obtain the position for placing ’q3’ which is (3, 2). But later this position also
leads to a dead end, and no place is found where ’q4’ can be placed safely. Then we have to backtrack
till ’q1’ and place it to (1, 2) and then all other queens are placed safely by moving ’q2’ to (2, 4), ’q3’ to
(3, 1) and ’q4’ to (4, 3). That is, we get the solution (2, 4, 1, 3). This is one possible solution for the
4-queens problem. For another possible solution, the whole method is repeated for all partial solutions.
The other solutions for 4 - queens problems is (3, 1, 4, 2) i.e.


